All righty, what is your name and what are you doing here? My name is Apoorva Somani and I'm one of the Red Team reviewers this
year. Oh, awesome.
What, you created this competition and now you're back to be a part of the Foundation Society. Why?
Because I saw what it did for me. I gave me an opportunity to
study engineering and kind of come from a background where that might not necessarily be the route I would otherwise take.
I go to school now at the Air Force Academy and
the rising sophomore and had I not found this competition and been introduced to
engineers here and meeting all these people, I wouldn't be where I am today.
So that's the reason I'm here. Try and get back any way I can and volunteer and
that's pretty much it. It's awesome. What are some of the things you learned in this competition like
specifically that helped you in the Air Force Academy? Yeah, so one of the things that's unique about us is that we're training to become officers, right?
So things like leadership, things like working in this kind of team dynamics.
I can realize now looking back what a horrible leader I was in some of these competitions, some of the mistakes I made,
right? The way I yelled at people or spoke to people and then it's like now as I come along you kind of grow with the
competition. So I started my freshman year and then step by step you learn what it actually means as you like grow within it and
take on more positions. And then now looking back, it's like everything I know about leadership, everything
I know about working in these crazy teams with all these talented people, it's just like taking care of your people, right?
So like when we, I've never actually won ISSTC, but like when we lose, right? It's not about yourself.
It's not about how bad you feel. You have to take care of everybody around you, right? Because it's a huge loss for everyone.
Everyone worked hard to get here.
Everyone like suffered away for 60 hours and you have to take care of your people.
So that's one of the huge things that I'm definitely taking in to heart as I continue with my military career.
How did you work your way up the ladder from being maybe just a part of the competition to being a leader to now being on the red team? Like how did you?
Yeah, so I think one thing that everyone needs to apply is that if you might think that, oh, that's not for me and you don't really know that unless you put yourself in uncomfortable situations, right?
So I started out as just a number of ops and then that year at ISSTC, I went for system engineer, which is kind of like one of the leadership roles between the departments.
And I was horrible. I didn't know what I was doing and we lost pretty horribly, but it's like you won't get that experience and you won't improve.
You don't just throw yourself off a life raft, right?
And if you really want to like just see what you're made of, see what you can do, you have to do that, right?
I think like with red team and all these things, there's like a natural progression for me where instead of CEOing, I really liked getting to bounce around and work with all the teams, all the departments still,
but kind of in more of like an advisory role and just really critique them and make fun of them the way I was made fun of and that's just how it worked out for me.
Can you explain like what red team is to somebody who doesn't know?
Yeah, so red team is basically one of the final reviews that we have and it's, again, everything in this competition is based off of real industry experiences, right?
So this is something that will actually happen when you're eventually part of a company working on one of these proposals.
You'll have a final review, like an internal review where people are basically going to ask you every little nook and cranny of your proposal, what's wrong with it, why won't it work, all these things.
So it's a final check before you present in front of your real NASA engineers, your real astronauts that we have this year.
So it's just a final check and then we're also like just here helping out and anything that we can do.
Awesome, thank you.